# OpenLane2 Tests
## Installation
### Install NIX: 
Run the command to install NIX.
```
bash <(curl -L https://nixos.org/nix/install)
```
### Install and Run OpenLane2
```
cd openlane2
nix-shell
```
The first time might take around 10 minutes while binaries are pulled from the cache.
### Download PDKs
This assumes we are using sky130.
```
volare enable --pdk sky130 <commit>  --pdk-root <pdk_download_dir>
```
To find appropriate `<commit>`, run:
```
volare ls-remote --pdk sky130
```
- I am using commit `0fe599b2afb6708d281543108caf8310912f54af`

The PDK should be stored under `~/.volare` if we do not include the `--pdf-root` command. However, that was used, change the PDK_ROOT parameter under notebook.py
### Create ENV
Create a `.env` file inside `Scripts` directory. Add `VOLARE_FOLDER="<[pdk_download_dir]>"`. 

Example: `VOLARE_FOLDER="/home/ethanhuang03/.volare"`
## Files 
1. `notebook.py` is a reproduction of [this notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/efabless/openlane2/blob/main/notebook.ipynb).
2. `metrics.py ` is a submodule for parsing openlane metrics for further analysis.
3. `spm.v` is the Verilog file provided from [this notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/efabless/openlane2/blob/main/notebook.ipynb).

## Adjust Reports of OpenSTA
To adjust the reports generated by OpenSTA, the following file inside the Openlane folder can be modified accordingly:    
`openlane/scripts/openroad/sta/corner.tcl`

The commands used to generate different types of reports, can be found in the [OpenSTA.pdf](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenSTA/blob/fbfc705282d102cccbdf3472e86fc9da35268ab5/doc/OpenSTA.pdf). 

## Show names of netlist instances
To adjust Yosys to show the names of netlist instances, the variable `SYNTH_AUTONAME` needs to be set to `True` in the `openlane2/openlane/steps/pyosys.py` file.

## Keep hierarchy (hack)
To precent Yosys from flattening the hierarchies in a design, set the variable `SYNTH_HIERARCHY_MODE` to be `default="keep"` in the `openlane2/openlane/steps/pyosys.py` file.
